# Documentation

**Mission Statement**

At iDEA, our unwavering mission is to establish a supportive and dynamic platform where students share their innovative ideas. Our aim is to empower these bright minds to drive meaningful change, enhancing lives and propelling the technology industry forward. While some ideas may have the potential to revolutionize the industry itself, every idea, big or small, plays a crucial role in our quest for excellence. The iDEA community itself embodies a deep passion for computer science and engineering. Collectively, we stay at the forefront of the ever-evolving realm of technology, ensuring that our community remains at the cutting edge of innovation.  This is iDEA, where ideas come alive and change becomes reality.

The main focus of this community is to bridge the gap between vision and execution. An idea will remain just that, an idea, unless it is nurtured properly, and given the appropriate resources to flourish. That is the primary objective that the students at iDEA will aim to achieve. Other areas of focus include the opportunity for students involved with iDEA to build their profiles for their professional careers. Furthermore, iDEA aims to build an environment where students can interact with each other and formulate ideas. The long-term goal will be to ensure that these ideas will be improved upon and executed in order to create products that will be a stepping stone for further development in the field of technology.

We have designed a structure that will properly enable this community to flourish. It starts with the way the teams have been structured within iDEA, which will ensure that this community will run smoothly and be sustainable for the long-term benefit of both current and future students.

### Name

[iDEA](https://ideacommunity.in)

### Faculty Co-ordinators

- Guru Prakash (Asst. Prof CSE)

- Dhanya M Dhanalakshmi (Asst. Prof CSE)

### Proposed Members

#### Advisors:
- Nirmal K - CB.EN.U4CSE19038
- Soorya S - CB.EN.U4CSE19352
- Ayush Barik - CB.EN.U4CSE19106
- Arun Joshua Thomas - CB.EN.U4CCE19010

#### Management:
- Lead - Aparna Arun - CB.EN.U4CSE20008
- Co-Lead - Akash S - CB.EN.U4CSE20006
- Outreach Lead -

#### Ideation:
- Arjhun S - CB.EN.U4CSE20009
- Varun Sankara Narayanan - CB.EN.U4CSE21665
- Dilip P - CB.EN.U4AIE21009

#### Internal Development:
- Aditya Krishna Mohan - CB.EN.U4CSE21202
- Nithin Ravi - CB.EN.U4CSE21141

#### Human Resources:
- Shriramya Karur - CB.EN.U4ECE20255
- Jaideep P - CB.EN.U4ECE20126
- Rahul Dutt - CB.EN.U4MEE20231

#### Curation:
- Prawin Subrajith S - CB.EN.U4MEE20230
- Navami Vipith Kumar - CB.SC.I5DAS20022

### Proposed Objectives

- Create an environment for students to thrive working with projects and publish research papers.
- Foster a culture of innovation and critical thinking by encouraging members to explore unconventional solutions to problem statements.
- Engage with the local community by identifying and addressing their specific needs through community service projects, social initiatives, and partnerships with nonprofit organizations.
- Develop solutions that are student and community centric that could positively impact quality of life.
- Provide mentorship and guidance to members throughout the project development process, including assistance with research methodologies, data analysis, and paper writing.
- Encourage interdisciplinary collaboration by welcoming members from various fields of study, promoting the exchange of ideas, and facilitating cross-disciplinary project teams.
- Provide a platform for members to present and discuss their research findings through internal conferences, symposiums, and discussions.
- Develop a repository of problem statements and solutions generated by community members, that will serve as a valuable resource for future endeavours.
- The member can choose to continue to work on an idea they propose or hand over the idea to iDEA and get credited as the ‘ideator’ for all future purposes. In either case, an affidavit will be signed by the ideator and developers before work commences.
- Establish a feedback mechanism to continuously improve the club's activities, gather input from members, and evaluate the impact of projects and research papers on the community.

### Future scope:

- Establish partnerships with journals, conferences, and publishing platforms to facilitate the publication and dissemination of members' research papers.
- Establish a relationship between iDEA and organisations like Hack Club and ArduinoMaker among others to collaborate with and provide access to resources for members.
- Provide access to resources within the university based on availability, along side potential mentorship opportunities.

### Outcome of the club activity (Goals)

1. Enhanced Project Development Skills
    - Members will gain practical experience in working on real-world problem statements bridging the gap between vision and execution.
    - Through collaboration with peers, members will learn effective teamwork, communication, and project management skills.
    - They will acquire a comprehensive understanding of real-life project development and maintenance cycles.
    - Members will understand the importance of documentation, for future reference and producing high-quality documentation.
    - They will be able to interact with, understand and update large codebases.
2. Research Paper Writing and Publication
    - Members will receive guidance and mentorship to improve their research paper writing abilities.
    - They will learn about research methodologies, literature review techniques, and citation management.
    - With support from the club, members will be able to develop their research ideas into high-quality papers suitable for publication.
    - The club will facilitate opportunities for members to present and publish their research papers, contributing to their academic and professional development.
3. Networking and Collaboration
    - Members will have the chance to collaborate with like-minded peers who share similar interests and passions.
    - Collaborations with small-scale companies and access to resources within the university will provide additional perks and benefits to members.
4. Community Impact
    - The club will encourage members to develop projects based on the local community's needs.
    - By addressing community challenges, members will have the opportunity to make a positive impact in their surroundings.  Around 20% of all problem statements from the ideation team will address these challenges.
    - Community service projects and social initiatives will be undertaken to contribute to the betterment of society.
    - We will try our best to link the club's projects with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to contribute to the overall development of society and address pressing global challenges.
5. Personal and Professional Growth
    - Through participation in club activities, members will develop a strong sense of ownership, responsibility, and leadership.
    - They will gain confidence in presenting their ideas, engaging in discussions, and defending their research findings.
    - Members will have the chance to improve their academic writing, presentation, and public speaking skills.

### Activities

**Bi-Annual Event** 

- In order to display the projects undertaken by the students in iDEA along with the products created and to showcase the development of the ideas put forward by ideators, a bi-annual (once every six months) event will be conducted.
- This event will serve as a platform for spreading awareness about the community and also as a cornerstone for the achievements of the  community members.
- It will be open for all students to attend.

**Monthly Events**

- Events exclusive for club members will be held to provide a platform for constructive interaction and to engage in fruitful discussions on developments made in respective projects.
- They will include discussions on the latest developments in the industry across multiple domains to generate further problem statements.
- Internal reviews with a faculty panel for the projects/research papers will be held.

**TEAM STRUCTURE**

iDEA consists of seven teams each with different purposes that work in tandem in order to create a sustainable community for the development of ideas. All teams are completely decentralized and have no impact on how the other teams function. They are as follows:

1 : The Management Team

This team consists of the Management Lead, Management Co-Lead, Outreach Lead and 3 representatives from every team other than the advisory team. This team of 17 members will be responsible for the overall functioning and management of the community, and the events it conducts.

- The lead and co-lead ensure smooth interdepartmental coordination, oversee overall functioning, and communicate with the visionary department.
- The outreach lead spearheads the club's marketing efforts, collaborating with the curation team to expand the club's reach.
- Bi-annual events are organized to raise awareness about the community and showcase its accomplishments.
- Monthly events are held to facilitate the skill development of members and developers.
- The club's direction will be overseen by the representatives from other teams to ensure its alignment with the collective vision.
- The management team will oversee the progress of the other teams and advise course correction if necessary.

2 : The Visionary Team

The visionary team comprises of two members of the previous terms’ management team who will provide their insights and ensure the club proceeds on the right track.

- This will ensure no central leadership by the management lead, or any other department.
- It will facilitate a seamless transition from one term to the next, avoiding disruptions in club activities.

3 : The iDEAtion Team

This team consists of an ensemble group of students who review the incoming ideas and refine them if necessary. These ideas when approved are considered validated and the ideator is provided with the required assistance from the team in order to formalize and develop the idea. 

- The team deals with potential ideators who present their ideas.
- They document and refine ideas before validating them.
- The team formalizes the process of developing the ideas.
- They highlight the skillset required for potential developers.
- If an idea is handed over to the team by an ideator, they develop it further.
- The team seeks inputs from the advisory team for potential problem statements.
- Each member in this team has an equal say, and decisions are only approved when there is a unanimous agreement.

4 : The Human Resources Team

This team's main responsibility is handling inter-personal relationships within the community. They also oversee membership management, documentation tracking, and resource allocation for ongoing and future projects. They perform the following functions:

- Manage the membership status of all involved students.
- Resolve internal conflicts between members.
- Track execution and documentation status of projects.
- Allocate resources to ongoing and future projects.

5 : The Curation Team

The Curation Team, will be responsible for creating compelling content for social media, and generating interest in the club's activities. By effectively curating and communicating the club's projects, research papers, and accomplishments, the team will play a crucial role in engaging the target audience, fostering enthusiasm, and expanding the club's reach and impact.

- The Curation Team will collaborate with the internal development team to ensure the resources page is regularly updated with the latest industry developments. This section will provide valuable resources for members to use certain tools (eg: resources to learn REACT from scratch etc.).
- They will develop engaging content for various social media platforms (e.g., Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn) to promote the club's initiatives and events.
- They will proactively seek opportunities to increase awareness of the club's activities and achievements among the target audience.
- The team will monitor the performance of the club's website and social media channels using relevant analytics tools and report the data collected to the Management Team.

6 : The Internal Development Team

The Internal Development Team will be responsible for maintaining the club's website. They will:

- Regularly update and maintain the club's website with relevant and accurate information about activities, projects, and events.
- Fix bugs and optimize algorithms/technical solutions developed for club activities.
- Work on developing solutions to improve workflow of the club.

7 : The Advisory Team

The Advisory Team comprises of graduates of the university who can help guide the club based on their experience in the industry.

- They can provide valuable insights on current developments in the industry and suggest problem statements that are in keeping with industry trends.
- This provides a beneficial networking opportunity to engage with our alma mater.
- We can invite people from this network to speak at our events to inspire students in their domains.